---
title: "Computational study of radioactive cesium capture in copper hexacyanoferrate structures for nuclear energy production"
collection: publications
permalink: /publication/2018-08-07-DOE
excerpt: 'Radioactive cesium is one of the most common and problematic products of nuclear fission and energy production. Currently, there is no permanent solution to rid nuclear waste of radioactive cesium. Copper hexacyanoferrate compounds, M2[CuFe(CN)6 - H2O], known as Prussian blue analogues (PBA) in which M can be Li, Na, K, and Cs, have shown early promise in capturing cesium cations through a sorption mechanism.'
date: 2019-07-31
venue: 'US Department of Energy - Internal Report'

paperurl: 'https://www.researchgate.net/publication/329783282_Computational_study_of_radioactive_cesium_capture_in_copper_hexacyanoferrate_structures_for_nuclear_energy_production '

citation: 'Hong, S. S., Topsakal, M., & Gill, S. Computational study of radioactive cesium capture in copper hexacyanoferrate structures for nuclear energy production.'
---
Radioactive cesium is one of the most common and problematic products of nuclear fission and energy production. Currently, there is no permanent solution to rid nuclear waste of radioactive cesium. Copper hexacyanoferrate compounds, M2[CuFe(CN)6 - H2O], known as Prussian blue analogues (PBA) in which M can be Li, Na, K, and Cs, have shown early promise in capturing cesium cations through a sorption mechanism. As part of the US Department of Energy's effort to develop revolutionary new hierarchical materials that more effectively mobilize nuclear waste elements, we utilize density functional theory calculations to aid characterization of the structure of PBAs as well as its changes during cesium exchange. Using the Scientific Data Computing Center's institutional cluster at Brookhaven National Laboratory (BNL), we investigate the structure to provide in- sights into the mechanism of cesium sorption. By computationally modeling these compounds, we are able to distinguish changes in the structural details that are overlooked by X-ray diffraction methods. Based on our results, we show that the lattice structure expands when the potassium is exchanged with cesium due to the larger ionic radius of cesium. The copper-nitrogen bond in the backbone structure shows the highest magnitude of expansion. Furthermore, the modeling studies show that cesium prefers to be at the 8c site, supporting the structural assumptions made by previous literature.